[Music]
all right you gamblers what do you think
is the probability of getting hit by a
meteorite would you even bet on that
according to scientists you have greater
chances to get struck by lightning hit
by a tornado and blown away by a
hurricane all at the same time however
there was one person who got this lucky
chance
maybe we shouldn't exactly say lucky
here anyway here's your story in the
early hours of November 30th 1954 people
across eastern Alabama reported to have
witnessed strange things in the sky some
said they had seen a huge fireball
leaving a trace like a giant welding arc
others told stories about a bright red
light accompanied by a trail of smoke
others still heard explosions and saw a
flash of light leaving a brown cloud
behind it many believed it was an
airplane falling from the sky but no one
knew the real reason for this phenomena
that is until it hit the roof of a home
in the small town of Sylacauga
about a half hour after the thing hit
his house
Eugene Hodges rushed home only to find a
huge crowd of Gawker's looking at his
dwelling agitated and pointing fingers
he had to push them away from his
doorstep to get to his wife Ann Hodges
who was still inside when Eugene opened
the front door what he saw shocked him
Ann was lying on her couch obviously in
pain an enormous bruise on her side the
roof had a large round hole in it as if
something big crashed through it
the wooden console radio was shattered
and somewhere on the floor near the
couch where his wife lay there was a
grapefruit-sized chunk of black rock as
it turned out and was having a nap and
was blissfully unaware of the events
that unfolded right above her head she
was woken up by a crash but couldn't
react or do anything at all when she
felt a sharp pain in her side people
from around the neighborhood started
gathering around the Hodges house almost
immediately and was afraid to touch the
piece of rock beside her couch and she
was still in pain when her husband
returned still she was only bruised and
could walk so she called the police and
they sent investigators along with the
government geologists to check out the
rock everyone was in near panic because
of the event some believed it was just a
part of a wrecked airplane that fell
somewhere around while others thought it
was a missile attack or something the
geologists though who rushed in from a
nearby quarry said that the rock was a
piece of a meteorite when the news
spread and Hodges immediately became the
center of everyone's attention in town
in fact she was so overwhelmed by the
unwanted visitors that she had a nervous
breakdown and had to be taken to the
hospital in a hurry the doctors who
treated her confirmed a severe bruise
but nothing life-threatening the
meteorite itself was taken by the police
and given to the US Air Force for
inspection their experts confirmed it
was indeed a chunk of space rock
after that the hype rose to an
incredible degree no one really knew
what to do with a meteorite and all
generally agree that Ann Hodges had all
the rights to keep it her landlady
disagreed though saying it was her land
that the rock hit but in the end she let
the Hodges keep it for five hundred
dollars up to this day and Hodges
remains the only human to have ever been
struck by a meteorite in known history
well what would you feel if you were to
set such a record let me know down in
the comments anyway meteorites are
extremely rare guests on our planet
mostly thanks to the layer of atmosphere
that protects us from space assaults
normally when they managed to break
through without burning to ashes they
fall in distance sparsely populated
areas and no one even sees them
however meteorites are much less
dangerous than another phenomenon
they're closely related with meteors
yeah I know they sound so alike you
wouldn't even think there was a
difference but there is and a big one
you see meteorite is a chunk of rock
from outer space that lands on the
surface of our planet and hits the
ground at unbelievable speeds it's
usually a piece of a much larger rock or
an asteroid
they got chipped and blown away that's
exactly what happened in Sylacauga with
an Hodges meteor on the other hand is a
similar piece of rock that gets so hot
that it shatters with violent force in
the atmosphere and can cause incredible
damage one of the most spectacular
examples of a meteor explosion was in
2013 in Chelyabinsk Russia it was
evening and most people were going home
from work when suddenly a bright spark
appeared in the sky
it flew silently quickly growing and
then disappeared with a final extremely
bright flash there were dozens of videos
on the internet made by eyewitnesses of
the event many of which you can still
find and watch yourself nobody really
understood what was happening and the
confusion reached its peak when the
shockwave struck it sounded like a
cannon shot
the ground shook rolling through the
whole city those closest to the
epicenter were pushed back and down with
such force that over 1500 people were
injured and windows burst in a lot of
buildings throughout the town it was
estimated that the explosion was about
30 times more powerful than an atomic
bomb luckily for the residents of Chile
events the meteor boomed 19 miles above
the city so it didn't suffer the
catastrophic consequences of such a
blast still it did certain damage even
at that height but that wasn't even the
most powerful meteor strike witnessed by
humans in recent history that one
happened in the beginning of the 20th
century and it was also in Russia namely
Tunguska Siberia June 30th 1908 a lone
man was sitting in a chair on the porch
of a trading post thinking suddenly he
saw how the sky in the North above the
forest was split in two and covered with
fire moments later there was a loud bang
crash and then the sound like rocks
falling from the sky the earth trembled
and after a few more seconds a heat wave
struck with such force that the man was
blown away from his chair and felt as if
his shirt was on fire to understand the
sheer scale of the explosion just
imagine that a huge rock weighing over
220 million pounds entered the Earth's
atmosphere at a speed of 30 3,500 miles
per hour and heated the air around it to
a whopping forty four thousand five
hundred degrees Fahrenheit the meteorite
couldn't withstand the enormous
temperature and pressure and as a result
it blew up in the air with a force of
185 atomic bombs this happening was
dubbed the Tunguska event and it was the
most powerful meteor explosion in
thousands of years the space rock that
exploded in the sky above Siberia was
twice the size of the Chelyabinsk meteor
and almost 10 times as heavy as a result
the blast was so powerful that it
flattened the trees in the area of 800
square miles
leaving them prone on the ground facing
away from the epicenter right beneath
the explosion though the trees stood
straight but bare all of their branches
and bark were stripped off them this
happens when the shockwave is just too
fast and furious and branches break off
before they could transfer the impact to
the stem of a tree it was later reported
that the shock wave from the blast was
registered by barometers as far away as
London dense clouds formed above
Tunguska that reflected sunlight from
below the horizon and people in Asia
were able to read outside at midnight as
if it were the middle of the day there
were of course even more powerful and
horrifying meteor events such as the one
that presumably killed off the dinosaurs
millions of years ago but these two are
probably the most impressive strikes in
human history but what's more disturbing
is that they are not the last scientists
are not sure about the time and place
but huge rocks from outer space will
always threaten our planet and maybe
even its existence however rest assured
nothing big is coming our way in the
near future so we shouldn't worry about
meteorites anytime soon so do you know
of any other notorious meteor events
that happened recently let me know down
in the comments if you learn something
new today then give this video a like
and share it with a friend but hey don't
go anywhere just yet
we have over 2,000 cool videos for you
to check out all you have to do is pick
the left or right video click on it and
enjoy stay on the bright side of life
[Music]